hey everyone laszlo Montgomery here with
the CSP season two opener I hope
everyone had a halfway decent rest while
I was busy working on this new slate of
ten episodes for season two I will
feature Chinese sayings that all in some
form or another have something to do
with music for example our for character
saying today chegou hug whaaah means the
song is too highbrow to be appreciated
by many so before getting more ahead of
myself than i already am let's pick
apart these four Chinese characters like
we always do and see what this means and
what's the backstory behind this
unappreciated song she call hug whaaah
achoo is a song a kind of some poetry
that became all the rage during the Song
Dynasty and even more so in the UN
dynasty that followed the song the four
main types of Chinese poetry work sure
fool and this shoe form go means high or
lofty huh in the fourth tone means to
join in the singing or to chime in this
character is usually pronounced in the
second tone and the fourth character is
Gua which means few or scanned boy that
was more complicated than usual so you
go hug whaaah all strung together let's
see poem hi joining in whew well I could
sort of maybe make out what this might
be all about but rest assured like every
Chung you there is some ancient story
that will explain that oblique for
character phrase and then once you're
properly schooled on that everything
will be as clear as a bell now don't
roll your eyes or anything but believe
it or not this one goes back to the
warring States Period doesn't it always
seemed that way 475 to 249 BCE I'll tell
you that was definitely the golden age
for Chung you this comes from a work
called do a true Longwood or replying to
the true kings questions and who might
you ask was the one replying to the chew
King this was somewhat I'm sure you
never heard of his name was so new and
he was a literary man of great repute
back in the warring States period he was
an official who was well known for the
profundity of his work and for being a
student of a famous official named qu n
qu UN was a well-known personnage from
Chinese history and culture and it was
from his suicide over his unfair exile
from Chu and the later defeat of Chu
bite Sheen that led chu un to commit
suicide by drowning himself in the miele
river east of daunting lake in Hunan
which in turn was the inspiration for
the whole creation of the Dragon Boat
Festival so song you had a very top
rated teacher and this explained why his
poetry was so admired by many and one
other noteworthy point about song you he
made the list of the Gould I sutha main
on the four most handsome men in ancient
China he was a good-looking guy pan on
the Western Jin literary great Gao Xiang
gone and wei jia were the other three
Gao was a general in the northern chi
and way was another Qin Dynasty official
so the King of Chu after hearing all
kinds of trash talking about song you
around the palace started to feel a
little suspicious about this key man of
his soul knew had been whispered about
and worst of all his literary prowess
was put in doubt by many in Chu high
society the King ass song you what's up
with that why is there so much
negativity about your work these days
and here in this piece entitled to age
who long one like I said song you
defends himself against all these words
whispered to the king about him behind
his back now what follows in the
narrative from all these Chinese sources
as an explanation from song you to the
king of Chu that involves all these
ancient Chinese musical terms and the
notes so I'm going to try and present it
Suns the tidal wave of chinese language
terms which unless you're familiar with
ancient chinese music will go in one ERA
and out the other so i went like this so
you began to explain to the king let's
say there's a singer performing in the
city somewhere and he starts singing
some old traditional folk tune from the
countryside thousands will join in and
sing along with him then he performed
some dirge or an elegy you know
something a little more down tempo and
elegant suddenly there are just a few
hundred people who could sing along and
appreciate it then this singer starts
belting out young trend I sure an old
favorite among the scholarly elites now
all you have are a couple dozen people
who could sing along then when you start
singing all the obscure ancient classic
tunes that used all these forgotten keys
and high notes and whatnot on now all
you have joining in with the singer or
maybe just a few the King got the
message that song you was trying to
convey so the more highbrow the music
the less people will be able to
understand and appreciate it song you
replied to his King you got that right
you see just as the Phoenix and the
sparrow or both birds only one could fly
to the heavens and back can a sparrow
ever know how high the sky is same with
fish look at the mighty Quinn fish that
could swim to the deepest depths of the
oceans and then sore as the pong bird to
the highest point in the heavens now
look at him compared to a common
goldfish and the goldfish ever imagine
how vast and deep are the seven seas
well you know it's the same with humans
just as fishes include the mighty Quinn
and birds have the Phoenix so do people
have their extraordinary kinds the king
after listening to song you carry on
like this said boy it must be lonely to
have such genius and sagacity you got no
idea says song you you know how it is
you go hug whaaah if the tunes are too
highbrow few people can sing it I mean
how can the calm and unwashed masses
understand and appreciate my work so
choose
go hug whaaah there are a few different
ways as far as how you use it like song
you if you feel you're perhaps too ahead
of your time or you're just to erudite
for your own good and can't get people
to follow you you could resign yourself
to the possibility that you are you go
hug whaaah you're too darn high falutin
for your own good it can also be used in
the situation where let's say you're
trying to console a friend maybe their
book bombed or their speech didn't go
well or their play got panned and they
were you know let's say underappreciated
then you could you know pat your friend
on the back and softly say hey you know
you go hug whaaah such magnificent work
like yours that's too clever for these
people anyone who is recognized for the
profoundness of their work yet receives
little or no acclaim for it can be said
to suffer from shugo hug whaaah few will
sing along to or appreciate a tune that
is too highbrow or too intellectual if
you will for their tastes so there you
have it ms I me chigo hug whaaah season
two is now often running and that is
going to be all I have for you this time
lazo Montgomery signing off from the
Southern California town of Los Angeles
I'm here pretty much each week serving
up Chung you Chinese sayings that can be
used by your good cells for all sorts of
perfect occasions as well as in your
daily life to WoW and Mays those
orbiting your world and now you know the
story behind this one so if anyone asks
you to explain just remember the king of
Chu and the handsome underappreciated
official song you see you next time
everybody this podcast as well as the
China history podcast and China vintage
our are all available at teacup dot
media and all the coolest hippest most
respected and admired podcast apps and
directories around see you next time
perhaps for another exciting episode of
the Chinese sayings podcast